When the Apostle Paul was busy preaching in the bustling city of Corinth, the
account at Acts 18 verse 5 says that Paul began to be intensely occupied with
the Word, or as the study note in the New Royal translation puts it, fully
absorbed in preaching the Word. Those words well describe the thousands of
brothers and sisters serving today as special pioneers. Just like Paul, they
are fully absorbed in their ministry. They spend about a hundred hours in service
every month. With limited time for secular work, they receive a modest allowance
to help with their expenses. Most of us are familiar with regular and
auxiliary pioneers, perhaps you serve as one. But what makes this special
pioneer arrangement unique? In this report, let's look at the important role
special pioneers have played and continue to play in supporting and expanding
the disciple-making work and consider what we can do to support these dear
faithful ones. The special pioneer arrangement began more than 85 years ago at
the 1937 Convention in Columbus, Ohio. Brother Rutherford explained that a group
of about 200 pioneers were being chosen to serve as special pioneers. Their
assignment was to take the lead in using one of the most powerful preaching
tools of the year. The portable phonogram. By this time, brothers had been using
phonographs to play short Bible messages for a few years. But usually only
after being invited inside someone's home. The newly appointed special
pioneers were to spearhead a new use of the phonograph, presenting the
recorded messages right on the householder's doorstep after just a few words of
introduction. Before long, tens of thousands of phonographs were in use in the
field. Special pioneers also took the lead in following up with interested
persons and conducting Bible studies, and they focused mainly on preaching in
big cities. But within a few years, the scope was expanded. Their assignment
would now include remote territories. As a result of the tireless work of those
intrepid special pioneers, hundreds of new congregations were formed. Today,
that initial group of 200 special pioneers has grown to more than 27,000, and
they continue to play a key role in opening up new territories all over the
world. Some who served faithfully for many years at Bethel or in other forms of
special full-time service, such as the circuit work, are assigned as special
pioneers. Their experience and zeal are a real benefit to their congregations.
Well, after serving at Bethel for over 30 years, Laurie and I received the call
from the branch office that we were being reassigned as special pioneers to the
field. And when we met with them, it was a little emotional. We knew there was
good possibility. However, it was Jehovah's direction. We took a picture with
them afterwards. We have that as a really nice memory aid of the new chapter of
our life. When they moved in, it seemed like they adopted all the young ones in
the congregation. And in doing so, they have actually improved their zeal and
participation in the ministry as well. Jehovah is using us in a way that allows us
to be able to assist a congregation. And at the same time, this congregation is
taking care and strengthening and helping us. And when we get the focus off of
ourselves and onto them and to those that are in the field, immediately Jehovah
blesses us with joy. They have taken that mindset of working hard for Jehovah at
Bethel and now really transitioning to working hard for Jehovah in the
Macedonian congregation. Do you have special pioneers in your congregation or
circuit? If so, spend time with them. Parents, help your young ones come to know
them. All of us can let them know how much we appreciate their example of faith.
Special pioneers are willing to serve wherever they are needed in their own
country or in some cases in other lands. So how does someone become a special
pioneer? Well, in most cases, it begins when a regular pioneer attends the school
for kingdom evangelizers. Based on the needs of the field, some graduates of
the school are appointed as temporary special pioneers for up to three years.
Afterward, some might continue as special pioneers or be invited to serve as
field missionaries. When I first heard that I was assigned as a temporary
special pioneer, I was shocked. I was a little bit scared, very overwhelmed, but
mostly excited. I've really enjoyed being available for the friends, being
available for different service times for phone calls or things like that.
It's just really been nice to support the congregation with more of my time.
I would call it the experience that we never knew we wanted because I never
never thought that it could be a goal of ours, never thought we would do it,
didn't understand or know too much about it. Because it's called special pioneer,
I think in our heads, before we're like all special people do that, they're just
really incredible at the ministry. So that's who special pioneers. So to get this
assignment, we're like, oh, regular people can be special pioneers. So really, the
School for Kingdom Evangelizers has become an essential doorway for those
wanting to be used more fully by Jehovah's organization. The School for Kingdom
Evangelizers was like a power station that gave us strength to continue in our
ministry. The two month of training really helped me to be more fluent in the
pure language, and I felt newfound strength when I returned to preach in the
foreign language field after graduation. Not only does it provide you with the
training, but it helps you to be able to get even closer to Jehovah more than
you had ever imagined before. Because the School for Kingdom Evangelizers, we
imagine we're gonna be practicing preaching every day, but the School just
helped us with our relationship with Jehovah. We felt so built up, we would go
anywhere. Naturally, many would prefer to choose their own assignment. However,
when we put ourselves in Jehovah's hands through his organization, we receive
valuable training and find the best place to grow spiritually. We feel great joy
in finding language service where we express Jehovah's love and goodness to
foreigners who's been through so much in this tough world. I am really happy
because although I'm physically in Korea, it feels like I'm doing missionary work.
I love my assignment very, very much. There's just a tremendous amount of joy
and blessings that come about in serving others. Special pioneering is
really the best life ever, but just to be able to give your all to Jehovah in
every way. I'm excited to see where Jehovah wants me next.
As we've just seen with many recent SKE graduates being assigned to the work,
special pioneering isn't out of reach for young couples or single ones, even those in their
20s. And there is a real need for more to serve in this special capacity.
So, you younger brothers and sisters, could you set special pioneering as a goal?
It can give you the training and experience you'll need to be more useful to Jehovah.
You would find it to be a wonderful career. Of course, not all of us can be special pioneers,
but we can support them and their efforts, their steadfastness, determination, and zeal
make them a real treasure. To all of our special pioneers, we echo the words of the Apostle Paul
to the Thessalonians when he wrote, we continually remember your faithful work, your loving
labors, and your endurance.